Attack scenarios (#33)
notaryproject/notaryproject: scenarios.md

- Multiple signatures, including signatures from multiple sources can be associated with a specific artifact.
- Original signatures are maintained, even if the artifact is re-tagged.

### Scenario 7: A mirror is compromised

> An attacker compromises a server that is hosting a mirror and gains access as an administrator. The attacker is able to alter any files on the mirror and access all keys stored on the mirror.

Reviewer: We should include a sentence to differentiate a mirror from a copy. The latter would include scenarios with ACME ingesting images from Wabbit Networks and adding their own signatures and policies on the images. I think the key difference between the two is what root key do the clients trust for verifying images. If they verify the upstream root, it acts as a mirror, and if it's a different root, we'd consider that a copy.

**Implications of this requirement:**

- There must be a way to check a signature from the original repository/developer when downloading from a mirror.
- Clients should not trust files that are signed only by the mirror, and not by the original repository.
- Mirrors should not have permission to edit packages and signatures.

### Scenario 8: An attacker performs a MitM attack

An attacker is able to sniff network traffic between the repository and client and alter packets as they are passed through the network.

**Implications of this requirement:**

> - All downloaded files and metadata files should be checked for integrity, even if they are downloaded from a known repository.

Reviewer: I think this is something we already get with the manifest and blob digests. The missing piece being filled by Notary is verifying the first node of that digest tree. Once that is done, Notary delegates the validation of the content matching its digest to the runtime.

> - Clients should only download a fixed amount of data for each file to prevent [endless data attacks](https://theupdateframework.io/security/).

Reviewer: Similar to the discussion on [#35](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/pull/35#discussion_r610968250), we should scope this to the signature verification, let the runtime handle the max manifest size, and signing of the manifest gets us signing on the size of every blob being pulled.

> - Any proprietary or sensitive information in packages or metadata should not be sent in cleartext.

Reviewer: From the container side, we tend to recommend against ever putting secrets and similar content in images. For Notary, I think what we want to say is Notary itself will not store secret data like private keys in the registry. However, if a user decides to put their credentials inside of an image and push to a registry that isn't configured with TLS, I don't think there's anything in Notary that would prevent or secure that since we're signing the image after it's already been pushed.

- Original signatures are maintained, even if the artifact is re-tagged.

### Scenario 7: A mirror is compromised

An attacker compromises a server that is hosting a mirror and gains access as an administrator. The attacker is able to alter any artifacts on the mirror and access all keys stored on the mirror. In this scenario, the mirror is an exact copy of the registry that uses the same root of trust as the registry. If a registry contains a copy of some, but not all artifacts, or has a separate root of trust, this registry is not a mirror.

**Implications of this requirement:**

- There must be a way to check a signature from the original repository/developer when downloading from a mirror.
- Clients should not trust artifacts that are signed only by the mirror, and not by the original repository.
- Mirrors should not have permission to edit artifacts and signatures.

### Scenario 8: An attacker performs a MitM attack

An attacker is able to sniff network traffic between the repository and client and alter packets as they are passed through the network.

**Implications of this requirement:**

> - The first node in the digest tree should be checked for integrity, even if it is downloaded from a known registry. Using this first node, the runtime should check all manifest and blob digests.

Author: @sudo-bmitch Does the wording for this point address your comment?

> - The first node in the digest tree should be checked for integrity, even if it is downloaded from a known registry. Using this first node, the runtime should check all manifest and blob digests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The first node in the digest tree should be checked for integrity, even if it is downloaded from a known registry. Using the verified digest, the runtime should validate the manifest and included blobs match their respective digests.
```
